Hail Jesus and Mary, dear subscribers of the YouTube channel of the Association "Croatia for Life".
In this third video, you will meet a special and beautiful young lady,
whom the Lord has reserved only for pregnant women.
It is our Dijana Brozović.
Dijana is the manager of the Center for Life in the city of Zagreb,
as well as the manager of the "You are not alone" team for pregnant women.
’You are not alone'’ are four words that have saved the greatest number of lives so far
through the activities of our Association "Croatia for Life".
Let’s meet Dijana.
Hail Jesus and Mary! My name is Dijana Brozović
and I am the head of the team for pregnant women "You are not alone" which operates within the Association "Croatia for Life".
I am also the coordinator of Centers for Life in Croatia.
We currently have six open Centers for Life –
in the city of Zagreb, in Zadar, in Split, in Slavonski Brod, in Vinkovci, and here is the newest one opened in Križevci.
We are currently in one of the Centers for Life, the one in the city of Zagreb,
which is also the first Center for Life that was opened.
These very spaces are the spaces where we receive our mothers and pregnant women who are thinking about abortion
and families who need any kind of help.
So, in this space we will also present our program: Team for pregnant women "You are not alone".
The team for pregnant women has been operating since 2014, when our Association was launched in Croatia.
Somehow, when we started the "40 Days for Life" initiative and our vigils in front of hospitals,
we realized that we needed something to offer pregnant women and mothers who contact us,
who are thinking about abortion, so we started this Team for pregnant women.
You may have noticed that the Team for pregnant women is called ''You are not alone''
because those four words have saved the greatest number of lives.
I would like to support this statement with an example.
Namely, a few months ago we received a call from a lady whose neighbor was pregnant
and who had an appointment for an abortion the next day.
So she contacted us for help.
I gave her my contact number, she gave me her neighbor’s and that girl who was pregnant called me
literally five minutes before the appointment for the abortion.
And in those five minutes, I managed to tell her that she won’t be alone, that we will be by her side,
that we will help her in all the ways she needs, and she thanked me and went to her appointment.
However, after a couple of hours she called me and said that it was this support, that help,
and the four words ''you are not alone'' that were her greatest support and the reason why she decided to keep her child.
Because in those words she felt that we were really ready to help her and she felt our sincerity and trust.
So she decided to keep her child.
This is just one example of how these four words save lives, and there are many.
Often today in society we can hear ''the right to choose'', and it is already becoming like a platitude,
but those women who find themselves in difficult life situations,
unfortunately have no choice but to have an abortion.
If their families and the environment turn their backs on them, and everyone is in favor of them having an abortion,
if they themselves do not have enough opportunities, whether economic or otherwise,
abortion is often left as their only choice.
We want to offer them the option that they can keep their child,
and that they can live and raise their child with dignity.
Through the team for pregnant women, we help them in different ways:
by paying rent and utilities, we also help them with gift vouchers for food, hygiene items,
everything they need for a child, from cribs, strollers, clothes, wet wipes,
everything they need for their child they can receive here at the Center for Life.
It means a lot to them. This support is one of the most important support we provide them with.
However, this is not the only form of help we provide them with.
We are there for them in all other ways, be it spiritually, morally, psychologically,
in whatever way they need, that’s how we approach them.
Namely, the first time they come to us for an interview, they often come exactly to this space,
and at that first interview we look at the reasons why a woman decides to have an abortion
and accordingly create the further help she needs.
We also have a whole range of experts who are at our disposal for any need,
from gynecologists, lawyers, social workers, psychologists, pediatricians,
really people of different professions and vocations offer us their help
and want to be there for those pregnant women and mothers who are in difficult life situations.
However, this is not the only form of help we provide them.
Our goal is not to make mothers dependent either on our support and help or on anyone else’s.
Our goal is for these mothers to become independent, to be able to live independently and raise their children.
So we encourage mothers to go to school, whether they complete some kind of course or night school,
anything that will help them get a job later.
We are also proud of the fact that several of our mothers managed to finish university with their child.
So I kind of like to say that mothers can really do much more than they think,
and I even believe that mothers have some kind of supernatural strength
that is given to them through their child as a motivation to fight even harder,
to persevere even more and not to give up in life.
As an example, we have a mother who was in a very difficult life situation.
At the moment when she became pregnant, she did not see any meaning in her life.
However, the child really came to her at the right moment and the child somehow saved her life.
She was forced to have an abortion by her family, but she wanted to give birth to that child
because she saw the meaning of her life in that child.
She refused to have an abortion, she kept her child, and she is a mother who finished high school while pregnant,
and later graduated from high school, enrolled in college and worked alongside her child and graduated from college.
So there’s nothing a mother can’t do.
And I believe that every mother who decides to keep her child really has strength,
because that strength comes from that one new life that she gave to her child.
We are currently helping 56 families in Croatia.
However, this figure changes from day to day.
Every day we receive new families, new families contact us for help.
Unfortunately, there is currently a difficult financial situation in our country, so it is increasingly difficult to raise children.
Finances are a growing problem for families to decide to have another child,
so through our work, mothers still decide to keep the child and that number out of those 56 of families changes every day,
because some families have become independent and do not need our material help so much anymore.
And new families are coming. However, all those families still stay here with us.
We like to say that we act as one big family.
All these families that we helped when we first started with the Association and with the initiative,
they are still there with us, we are still in contact, we still hear from each other
and they know that at any time they need help, they can still count on us,
they can ask us, they can contact us, so here we really are one big family
that now counts more than 160 families.
Namely, 160 lives have been saved since the start of the initiative, so that number is getting bigger and bigger.
Finally, I would like to tell you another testimony of a mother who met the volunteers in front of the hospital,
and she was a high school student at the time.
Namely, when she saw the volunteers, she threw very ugly words at them and thought
that these people mistreat women, that they are not good, that they discriminate.
However, three years after that meeting, she became pregnant.
She made an appointment for an abortion and decided to abort her child,
due to the fact that she did not have the support of her relatives or her partner.
However, she remembered those volunteers whom she insulted in front of the hospital and decided to contact us.
She came to the Center for Life with us, to see what exactly we will tell her, how we will approach her.
She expected that we would approach her with some kind of condemnation, that we would condemn her for what she wanted to do,
that we would be the ones to give some kind of monologue and that she would just listen.
However, she was surprised when she came to the Center for Life that she got her first hug,
and that for the first time someone honestly asked her how she was doing and what was going on in her life.
She was surprised that she already felt that trust at that first meeting and told us her whole life story.
Everything she went through in her childhood, all the difficulties she had to deal with,
and she was surprised by the fact that this was a part of her life that she had never told anyone,
and here she told us already at the first meeting.
The next day we went to see a gynecologist and she heard her child’s heartbeat
and that was the moment when she decided to keep her child, to accept our help, our support.
As we were leaving that examination, she asked me why we were doing this,
why we were there for her, and we didn’t know her at all.
Why do we care so much about her and her child.
And the love we gave her surprised her and somehow melted her heart
and she decided to give her child a chance.
This is one example, and we could tell you many such life stories.
I want to thank you all for your prayer support, for your financial support,
because without your prayer and financial support, we would not be able to act in this way,
we would not be able to provide these mothers with all that we provide them,
all this support they need and I thank you from the bottom of my heart on behalf of all mothers,
on behalf of all rescued children.
And they are really grateful to you for everything you do for them.
Your little is really a lot for someone.
Maybe your five minutes of prayer in front of hospitals can really save someone’s life.
Your little money that you set aside for the Association means a lot to someone.
Thank you from the bottom of my heart and I wish you God’s blessing.
In this video, you got to know our Dijana and the work of the Center for Life in the city of Zagreb.
We have several Centers for Life throughout Croatia.
If you find yourself in such difficulties of life,
if you are thinking about whether to have an abortion or not – we implore you – don’t do it!
There are people who care, who will not leave you alone and who will be happy to help you.
Feel free to contact us.